Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: IT WAS A MILITARY
ASSAULT UNLIKE ANYTHING THE
WORLD HAD SEEN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND OTHER WORLD
LEADERS GATHERED TODAY AT
NORMANDY, ON THIS 70TH
ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY TO SALUTE
THE U.S. TROOPS WHO STORMED THE
SHORE, AND CHANGED THE COURSE OF
THE SECOND WORLD WAR.
>> WHEN THE SHELLS WERE COMING
OVER I WOULD SAY, 'IF I CAN
SURVIVE THIS, I WILL WORK THE
REST OF MY LIFE FOR NOTHING,
JUST TO BE ALIVE."
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, BACK IN THE U.S.,
THE LATEST JOBS REPORT SHOWS
EMPLOYMENT NOW EXCEEDS PRE-
RECESSION LEVELS, BUT MANY OF
THE JOBS CREATED HAVE LOWER
WAGES.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE,
TO ANALYZE A FULL WEEK OF NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY:
¶  ¶
MOVING OUR ECONOMY FOR 160
YEARS.
BNSF, THE ENGINE THAT CONNECTS
US.
ONG ENOUGH
TO RECOGNIZE THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
OUT THERE OWNING IT.
THE ONES GETTING INVOLVED,
STAYING ENGAGED.
THEY ARE NOT AFRAID TO QUESTION
THE PATH THEY'RE ON.
BECAUSE THE ONE QUESTION THEY
NEVER WANT TO ASK IS, "HOW DID I
END UP HERE?"
I STARTED SCHWAB WITH THOSE
PEOPLE.
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO TAKE
OWNERSHIP OF THEIR INVESTMENTS,
LIKE THEY DO IN EVERY OTHER
ASPECT OF THEIR LIVES.
>> UNITED HEALTHCARE--
ONLINE AT uhc.com.
>> AND WITH THE ONGOING SUPPORT
OF THESE INSTITUTIONS
>> THIS PROGRAM WAS MADE
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA,
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
AND THE INCOMING LEADER OF
UKRAINE ENGAGED IN HIGH-PROFILE
DIPLOMACY TODAY AT THE D-DAY
COMMEMORATIONS IN FRANCE.
PUTIN MET BRIEFLY WITH UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT-ELECT PETRO
POROSHENKO, BETWEEN EVENTS.
AFTERWARD, HE SAID THEY AGREED
ON THE NEED FOR A CEASE-FIRE IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): I CANNOT BUT
COMMEND THE POSITION OF MR.
POROSHENKO THAT BLOODSHED SHOULD
BE STOPPED IMMEDIATELY IN THE
EAST OF UKRAINE.
AND HE HAS A PLAN IN THAT
REARD.
WHAT PLAN THIS IS YOU'D BETTER
ASK NOT ME BUT HIM.
HE TOLD ME ABOUT IT IN A FEW
WORDS BUT IT'S ONE THING TO TALK
ABOUT IT HERE IN FRANCE AND IT'S
ANOTHER THING TO EXPLAIN IT IN
HIS OWN COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: EARLIER, PUTIN AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA KEPT THEIR
DISTANCE DURING A GROUP PHOTO,
BUT THEY DID CHAT AT A LUNCHEON,
SINCE THE CRISIS ERUPTED.SESSION
A WHITE HOUSE ADVISOR SAID MR.
OBAMA TOLD PUTIN HE SHOULD
RECOGNIZE POROSHENKO AND STOP
HELPING THE REBELS IN UKRAINE,
IF HE WANTS TO EASE TENSIONS.
THE ACTING SECRETARY OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS SOUNDED A NEW WARNING
TODAY FOR THE V.A.'S TROUBLED
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
SLOAN GIBSON SAIMITORS
WHO PUNISH WHISTLE BLOWERS WILL
THEMSELVES BE PUNISHED.
HE SPOKE IN SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS,
AFTER REPORTS THAT 37 V.A.
EMPLOYEES, IN 18 STATES WERE
PENALIZED FOR COMPLAINING OF
PROBLEMS.
>> I AM SETTING THE EXPECTATION
THAT INTIMIDATION OR
RETALIATION, NOT JUST AGAINST
WHISTLEBLOWERS, BUT ANYBODY THAT
RAISES THEIR HAND AND SAYS, I
THINK WE'VE GOT A PROBLEM HERE
OR I THINK I KNOW A BETTER WAY
TO DO THIS OR I THINK THIS IS
WRONG, THAT IS ABTE
UNACCEPTABLE.
>> Woodruff: THE OFFICE OF
SPECIAL COUNSEL, A FEDERAL
INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY, IS LOOKING
INTO THE WHISTLEBLOWER CASES.
SOME INVOLVE EMPLOYEES WHO
REPORTED IMPROPER SCHEDULING OF
VETERANS SEEKING CARE.
THE TALIBAN INSISTED TODAY THAT
ARMY SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL WAS
TREATED WELL DURING FIVE YEARS
OF CAPTIVITY.
A SPOKESMAN FOR THE MILITANTS
CONTRADICTED WHITE HOUSE CLAIMS
THAT BERGDAHL WAS IN FAILING
HEALTH.
HE SAID THE SOLDIER HAD FRUIT
AND OTHER FOODS HE REQUESTED,
AND EVEN PLAYED SOCCER WITH HIS
CAPTORS.
IN AFGHANISTAN, PRESIDENTIAL
FRONT-RUNNER ABDULLAH ABDULLAH
NARROWLY ESCAPED BEING
ASSASSINATED WHEN TWO BOMBS HIT
HIS CAMPAIGN CONVOY.
IT HAPPENED OUTSIDE A HOTEL IN
KABUL WHERE ABDULLAH HAD JUST
SPOKEN.
SIX CIVILIANS WERE KILLED, AND
CHARRED REMAINS OF CARS AND
DEBRIS WERE LEFT LITTERING THE
STREET.
AFTERWARD, ABDULLAH CHARGED THE
BOMBINGS WERE MEANT TO SCARE
VOTERS AND DISRUPT THE ELECTION.
>> ( translated ): THE ENEMIES
OF AFGHANISTAN FAILED IN THEIR
PLOT TODAY, BUT UNFORTUNATELY WE
HAVE LOST A NUMBER OF OUR
COUNTRYMEN.
THREE OF MY COMPANIONS AND THREE
OF OUR COUNTRYMEN WERE MARTYRED
IN TODAY'S ATTACK.
I EXPRESS MY SINCERE CONDOLENCES
TO THEIR FAMILIES AND MAY GOD
REST THEIR SOULS IN PEACE.
>> Woodruff: ABDULLAH IS FAVORED
TO WIN A RUNOFF JUNE 14TH, TO
SUCCEED PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY.
SEATTLE POLICE DUG INTO THE
BACKGROUND OF THE MAN WHO
ALLEGEDLY KILLED ONE PERSON AND
WOUNDED TWO AT A COLLEGE,
THURSDAY AFTERNOON.
HE WAS IDENTIFIED AS AARON
YBARRA, A GROCERY CLERK.
INVESTIGATORS SAY HE OPENED FIRE
IN A BUILDING AT SEATTLE PACIFIC
UNIVERSITY.
WHEN HE PAUSED TO RE-LOAD, THEY
SAY, A STUDENT PEPPER-SPRAYED
HIM, THEN TACKLED HIM.
THE UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND
ANNOUNCED TODAY IT'S GETTING $25
MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
BILLIONAIRE KOCH BROTHERS, A
MAJOR FORCE IN CONSERVATIVE
POLITICS.
MOST OF THE GRANT WILL PAY FOR
NEARLY 3,000 SCHOLARSHIPS FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN STUDENTS.
THE REST WILL SUPPORT
HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES.
CHARLES AND DAVID KOCH ARE BEST
KNOWN FOR GIVING MILLIONS TO
LIBERTARIAN AND CONSERVATIVE
CAUSES.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
88 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,924.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 25 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,321.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED ALMOST
9, TO FINISH AT 1949, ANOTHER
RECORD.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
S-AND-P GAINED MORE THAN 1%.
THE NASDAQ WAS UP NEARLY 2%.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
REMEMBERING THE INVASION THAT
TURNED THE TIDE OF WORLD WAR II;
MORE JOBS, BUT LOWER WAGES IN
THE U.S. LABOR MARKET;
A CLOSE READ OF THE BOOK
BUSINESS;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
PLUS, CORRUPTION CASTS A SHADOW
ON THE WORLD CUP.
>> Woodruff: HEADS OF STATE ANDD
SERVICES WHO BRAVELY FOUGHT ON
THE SHORES OF NORMANDY, FRANCE,
ON THIS DAY IN 1944, RETURNED
THERE TODAY TO MARK THE
ANNIVERSARY OF THE D-DAY
INVASION.
>> Woodruff: AS THE SUN ROSE
OVER THE ENGLISH CHANNEL THIS
MORNING, AMERICAN VETERANS IN
THEIR '80'S AND '90'S GATHERED
TO REMEMBER THE DAY THEY CAME
ASHORE ON OMAHA BEACH TO FIGHT
THE NAZIS.
>> VERY SPECIAL MOMENT OF MY
LIFE, I'M SO FILLED WITH JOY
RIGHT NOW I CAN HARDLY CONTROL
MYSELF.
THANKS GOD FOR BEING HERE.
>> 6:00 D-DAY, LANDING TIME FOR
THE BEACHHEAD BOATS.
>> Woodruff: 70 YEARS AGO,
"OMAHA" WAS ONE OF 5 BEACHES IN
NORMANDY WHERE WELL OVER 150,000
ALLIED TROOPS FOUGHT THEIR WAY
INTO FRANCE.
YOU SEE SOME OF THE MORE THAN
5,000 SHIPS AND 13,000 AIRCRAFT
THAT TOOK PART.
BY THE END OF THAT FIRST DAY,
THE ALLIES HAD A VITAL FOOTHOLD.
BUT IT CAME AT A HIGH PRICE.
BUT, IT CAME AT A HIGH PRICE:
MORE THAN 20,000 AMERICANS DIED
AT NORMANDY, INCLUDING THE 9,387
WHO LIE IN THE AMERICAN CEMETERY
NEXT TO OMAHA BEACH.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PAID TRIBUTE TO
THEM TODAY.
>> AMERICA'S CLAIM, OUR
COMMITMENT, TO LIBERTY; TO
EQUALITY; TO FREEDOM; TO THE
INHERENT DIGNITY OF EVERY HUMAN
BEING, THAT CLAIM IS WRITTEN IN
BLOOD ON THESE BEACHES, AND IT
WILL ENDURE FOR ETERNITY.
NORMANDY, THIS WAS DEMOCRACY'S
BEACHHEAD.
AND OUR VICTORY IN THAT WAR
>> Woodruff: OF THE 16 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO SURVIVED THE WAR,
ONLY A LITTLE OVER A MILLION ARE
STILL ALIVE.
MR. OBAMA SAID IT'S IMPORTANT
THEIR STORIES ARE PASSED ON.
>> WE ARE ON THIS EARTH FOR ONLY
A MOMENT IN TIME.
AND FEWER OF US HAVE PARENTS AND
GRANDPARENTS TO TELL US ABOUT
WHAT THE VETERANS OF D-DAY DID
HERE SEVENTY YEARS AGO.
SO WE HAVE TO TELL THEIR STORIES
FOR THEM.
WE HAVE TO DO OUR BEST TO UPHOLD
IN OUR OWN LIVES THE VALUES THAT
THEY WERE PREPARED TO DIE FOR.
>> Woodruff: FRENCH PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE VOWED HIS
COUNTRY WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER
THOSE WHO SACRIFICED THEIR LIVES
THAT DAY.
>> ( translated ): THEY WERE
YOUR PARENTS, YOUR BROTHERS,
YOUR FRIENDS.
THEY WERE OUR LIBERATORS.
FRANCE WILL NEVER FORGET WHAT
SHE OWES TO THESE SOLDIERS, WHAT
SHE OWES TO THE UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, BRITISH
VETERANS, POLITICIANS AND ROYAL
FAMILY MEMBERS ATTENDED A
SERVICE OF REMEMBRANCE AT BAYEUX
CATHEDRAL.
IT ESCAPED DAMAGE DURING THE
WAR, AND THE CITY WAS THE FIRST
ONE LIBERATED IN NORMANDY.
LATER, ON THE SANDS OF "SWORD
BEACH," WHERE BRITISH FORCES
LANDED, HUNDREDS OF DIGNITARIES
AND VETERANS GATHERED FOR
ANOTHER CEREMONY.
QUEEN ELIZABETH THE SECOND
ARRIVED TO A LOUD ROUND OF
APPLAUSE.
THE 88-YEAR-OLD MONARCH IS ONE
OF THE FEW REMAINING HEADS OF
STATE WHO ACTIVELY SERVED DURING
THE WAR, AS A DRIVER AND AUTO
MECHANIC.
TODAY'S EVENTS WERE THE
CULMINATION OF COMMEMORATIVE
ACTIVITIES ALL THIS WEEK.
MILITARY REENACTMENTS TOOK PLACE
ALONG THE FIVE FAMOUS BEACHES.
AND IN THE SKIES OVER NORMANDY
THERE WERE SPECIAL PARACHUTE
JUMPS BY VETERANS.
93-YEAR OLD AMERICAN JIM MARTIN
JUMPED NEAR UTAH BEACH.
>> WONDERFUL.
>> Woodruff: WAS IT DIFFERENT?
>> OH YES, NOBODY SHOOTING AT
ME.
IT'S MUCH NICER.
>> Woodruff: 89-YEAR-OLD
SCOTSMAN JOCK HUTTON TOOK A
TANDEM JUMP INTO THE VERY SAME
FIELD IN RANVILLE, FRANCE, WHERE
HE LANDED 70 YEARS AGO.
>> WE TRAINED FOR MONTHS AND
MONTHS AND MONTHS AND WE LANDED
WITH ONE PURPOSE IN MIND AND
THAT WAS TO LIBERATE RANVILLE,
WHICH WE DID BEFORE FIRST LIGHT.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THE UNITED
STATES TODAY, VETERANS ATTENDED
A CEREMONY AT THE D-DAY MEMORIAL
IN BEDFORD, VIRGINIA.
BOB SALES FROM MADISON HEIGHTS,
VIRGINIA WAS IN THE FIRST WAVE
OF SOLDIERS TO LAND.
HIS WIFE SPOKE FOR HIM TODAY.
>> WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THERE
MIGHT NEVER COME A DAY WHEN JUNE
THE 6TH MEANS NO MORE THAN ANY
OTHER DAY, THAT THERE MIGHT
NEVER BE A GENERATION OF
AMERICANS FOR WHOM THE NAME
NORMANDY MEANS NOTHING AT ALL.
>> Woodruff: TO ENSHRINE THAT
HISTORY, THE NATIONAL WORLD WAR
TWO MEMORIAL IN WASHINGTON WAS
BUILT TEN YEARS AGO.
TODAY, VETERANS LAID WREATHS IN
FRONT OF THE WALL OF GOLD STARS
THAT REPRESENT ALL THE AMERICANS
WHO DIED IN THE WAR.
THE LATEST GOVERNMENT JOBS
REPORT SHOWS THE AMERICAN LABOR
MARKET MOVING INTO IT'S
STRONGEST HIRING PACE IN YEARS.
EMPLOYERS ADDED 217,000 JOBS
LAST MONTH AND THE UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE REMAINED AT 6.3%.
ITS LOWEST LEVEL SINCE SEPTEMBER
2008.
MAY ALSO MARKED AN IMPORTANT
MOMENT: THE HIGHEST TOTAL
PAYROLL LEVEL IN U.S. HISTORY.
ALL IN ALL, A SEEMINGLY SOLID
REPORT.
BUT THOSE LOOKING CLOSELY SAY
IT'S PREMATURE TO CELEBRATE
MUCH.
ESPECIALLY WHEN AT LEAST 10
MILLION PEOPLE ARE STILL LOOKING
FOR WORK.
NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN HAS THE STORY, PART
OF HIS ONGOING REPORTING:
"MAKING SENSE OF FINANCIAL NEWS"
>> Woodruff: MAY WAS THE FOURTH
STRAIGHT MONTH EMPLOYERS ADDED
MORE THAN 200,000 JOBS.
THE LAST TIME THAT HAPPENED:
MORE THAN 14 YEARS AGO.
YET THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE DIDN'T
BUDGE.
SO WE ASKED M.I.T. LABOR
ECONOMIST PAUL OSTERMAN FOR HIS
TAKE.
>> GOOD NEWS AND BAD NEWS.
>> Reporter: YOU KNOW, IT SEEMS
LIKE EVERY MONTH I INTERVIEW
SOMEONE LIKE YOU ON THE FIRST
FRIDAY OF THE MONTH AND THEY SAY
GOOD NEWS AND BAD NEWS.
>> THERE'S A REASON FOR THAT,
THE GOOD NEWS, 200,000 JOBS
ADDED.
THAT'S GREAT.
THE BAD NEWS, THE LEVEL OF PAIN
OUT THERE HAS NOT CHANGED.
THERE'S STILL ABOUT 20 MILLION
PEOPLE WHO ARE STILL UNEMPLOYED
OR WORKING PART-TIME JOBS OR NOT
IN THE LABOR FORCE BUT WOULD
LIKE TO BE IN THE LABOR FORCE.
THAT NUMBER IS JUST STABLE AND A
LOT OF PAIN.
>> Reporter: THE UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE REMAINED STEADY BUT THAT'S
BECAUSE WE'VE ADDED 200,000 JOBS
BUT 200,000 PEOPLE TO THE LABOR
FORCE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT BUT THINK OF THE
POPULATION AND THINK OF THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING.
THAT TELLS YOU HOW HEALTHY THE
ECONOMY IS, HOW GOOD THE JOB
MARKET IS.
THAT NUMBER PLUMMETED IN THE
RECESSION AND IT BARELY CLIMBED
BACK UP.
WE'RE NOT AT PRE-RECESSION
LEVELS.
>> Reporter: INDEED THE SO-
CALLED "EMPLOYMENT TO POPULATION
RATIO" HAS BEEN BELOW 60% FOR
FIVE YEARS NOW, DOWN ALMOST ONE-
RECESSION, TO A LOW LAST SEEN IN
THE REAGAN RECESSION OF THE
EARLY '80s.
NOW THE ECONOMY IS ADDING JOBS.
IN FACT, MAY MARKED A MILESTONE:
FIVE YEARS AFTER THE END OF THE
GREAT RECESSION, WE'VE FINALLY
REGAINED THE NEARLY NINE MILLION
JOBS THAT WERE LOST.
BUT OSTERMAN, WHO HAS RESEARCHED
THE QUALITY OF THE NEW JOBS,
SAYS THEY REPRESENT NO PROGRESS
IN WAGES FOR THE ECONOMY AS A
WHOLE.
>> 20-25% OF ALL ADULTS WHO ARE
WORKING ARE IN POVERTY-LEVEL
JOBS.
JOBS THAT IF THEY WORKED FULL-
TIME, FULL YEAR, WOULD NOT RAISE
THEM ABOVE 125% OF THE POVERTY
RATE FOR A FAMILY OF THREE.
>> Reporter: A RECENT REPORT BY
THE NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT LAW
PROJECT FOUND THAT LOWER-WAGE
JOBS IN SECTORS LIKE RETAIL,
RESTAURANTS AND "ADMINISTRATIVEE
LION'S SHARE OF THE JOB GAINS
SINCE 200
CHRISTINE OWENS RUNS THE GROUP.
>> THEY ACCOUNTED FOR 39% OF JOB
GROWTH IN THE RECOVERY.
FOUR OUT OF EVERY 10 JOBS THAT
WERE ADDED WERE IN THOSE THREE
VERY LOW WAGE INDUSTRIES.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THIS
SAME STUDY, ALL LOW-PAYING
INDUSTRIES ACCOUNTED FOR LESS
THAN A QUARTER OF JOB LOSSES
DURING THE RECESSION, BUT THEY
HAVE ACCOUNTED FOR ALMOST HALF
OF JOB GAINS SINCE.
PUT SIMPLY:
>> WE'VE GAINED FAR MORE JOBS IN
LOW WAGE INDUSTRIES THAN WE DID
IN MID-WAGE AND HIGH-WAGE
INDUSTRIES.
>> Reporter: IN MAY, FOR
EXAMPLE, SOME OF THE BIGGEST JOB
GAINS WERE IN HEALTH CARE.
SEEMED PROMISING.
YET MANY OF THOSE JOBS ARE LOW-
PAYING.
>> JOBS LIKE HOME CARE.
HOME CARE IS ONE OF THE FASTEST
GROWING JOBS IN OUR ECONOMY AND
IT IS THE JOB THAT IS EXPECTED
TO GROW THE MOST OVER THE NEXT
TEN YEARS.
IT PAYS POVERTY WAGES.
>> Reporter: PAUL OSTERMAN
ELABORATED.
>> HEALTH CARE IS A VERY
BIFURCATED, POLARIZED INDUSTRY.
YOU'VE GOT THE DOCTORS AND
NURSES AT THE TOP, YOU'VE GOT
THE HOME HEALTH CARE AIDES,
YOU'VE GOT THE C.N.A.'S, THE
CERTIFIED NURSING ASSISTANTS, AT
THE BOTTOM.
THOSE BOTTOM JOBS ARE GOING TO
GROW IMMENSELY BECAUSE OF THE
RETIREMENT OF THE BABY BOOM,
BECAUSE OF THE DEMAND OF HOME
HEALTH CARE.
SO THE GROWTH IN HEALTH SERVICES
THAT ARE EXPECTED DOES NOT
NECESSARILY LEAD TO BETTER JOBS
AT ALL.
>> Reporter: CONSIDER THE ENTIRE
ECONOMY, SAYS OSTERMAN, AND WHAT
THE AVERAGE JOB HAS BEEN PAYING.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT WAGE GROWTH IN
THE ECONOMY, OVER THE LAST 12
MONTHS IT'S BEEN ABOUT 2.1%.
THAT'S BARELY AHEAD, BARELY
AHEAD OF INFLATION, SO PEOPLE
ARE NOT GETTING AHEAD IN TERMS
OF THEIR EARNINGS IN THIS
RECOVERY.
>> Reporter: AND IF YOU LOOK AT
WHERE SO MANY OF THE NEW JOBS
CLUSTER, IN NON-SUPERVISORY
WORK, TODAY'S EMPLOYMENT REPORT
SAYS THAT WAGE GROWTH ACTUALLY
TRAILED INFLATION OVER THE PAST
YEAR.
THE BOTTOM LINE FOR MAY, THEN:
MORE WORKERS AND MORE JOBS, BUT
NOT NECESSARILY THE KIND OF JOBS
THAT SIGNAL ANYTHING LIKE A
ROBUST RECOVERY.
PAUL DETAILS MORE EMPLOYMENT
NUMBERS ONLINE INCLUDING THE
UNDERREPORTED STAT OF THOSE NOT
IN THE LABOR FORCE BUT SAY THEY
WANT A JOB.
SEE HOW HIGH THAT HAS RISEN ON
MAKING SENSE.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN TO ONE
PARTICULAR BUSINESS THAT'S
EXPERIENCED CHANGE FROM
TECHNOLOGY, CONSOLIDATION AND
OTHER FACTORS: THE WORLD OF
BOOKS.
JEFFREY BROWN WAS THERE FOR THE
PUBLISHING INDUSTRY'S ANNUAL
TRADE SHOW THAT WRAPPED UP THIS
PAST WEEKEND.
HERE'S HIS REPORT.
>> Brown: PUBLISHERS LARGE AND
SMALL, BOOK SELLERS FROM FAR AND
WIDE, AGENTS, EDITORS,
PUBLICISTS AND, YES, AUTHORS.
THE ANNUAL BOOK EXPO AMERICA IN
NEW YORK WAS THE CENTER'S
LARGEST TRADE FAIR, A PLACE TO
SELL YOUR WARES, MAKE NEW
CONNECTIONS AND BASK IN THE
GLORY OF THE WRITTEN WORD.
JAMES PATTERSON IS A ROCK STAR
AT B.E.A., A PUBLISHING TITAN
WITH DOZENS OF BEST SELLERS.
FOR HIM, ALL WOULD SEEM WELL,
BUT HE SEES A CONTINUING CRISIS
IN THE WORLD OF BOOKS TODAY, AND
HE'S DONATING A MILLION DOLLARS
TO INDEPENDENT BOOK SELLERS
AROUND THE COUNTRY TO HELP THEM
RAISE AWARENESS OF THEIR PLIGHT.
>> THIS IS A PERIOD OF
EVOLUTION, REVOLUTION, WHATEVER
YOU WANT TO CALL IT BIG SHIFT TO
EBOOKS, AND I THINK WE JUST HAVE
TO SLOW DOWN AND MAKE SURE IT'S
AN ORDERLY TRANSITION.
PEOPLE NEED TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
IS AT RISK HERE IS AMERICAN
LITERATURE.
>> Brown: THAT'S BEEN A
LONG-RUNNING THOUGHT LINE IN
THIS INDUSTRY WITH EBOOKS AND
AMAZON.
THIS YEAR, A MORE UPBEAT STORY.
>> WE'RE IN THE MIDDLE OF
ANOTHER BIG DISRUPTION OF THE
INDUSTRY AND WE NEED ANOTHER
RETHINKING OF OUR BUSINESS.
KS WHICH HAS GROWNFOUNDED
FROM A SMALL STARTUP IN CHICAGO
INTO A LARGE PUBLISHER OF BOTH
PRINT AND EBOOKS FROM GENRE'S
FROM CHILDREN'S, TO ROMANCE TO
NON-FICTION.
A FORMER STATISTICIAN, SHE LOOKS
HARD AT THE NUMBERS.
>> WHAT'S INTERESTING IS AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE CONVERSATION, I
BELIEVE PEOPLE BELIEVED WE WOULD
HAVE A 100% CONVERSION RATE.
A P BOOK OR E BOOK, THAT WOULD
BE THE CONVERSATION.
WE NOW KNOW THE CONVERSATION IS
AN "AND" CONVERSATION SO THAT
THE BULK OF BUYERS ACTUALLY BUY
BOOKS.
THE BULK OF USERS ACTUALLY USE
THEM.
>> Brown: EBOOKS SHE SAYS ARE
BRINGING IN MORE READERS BECAUSE
KEEP PEOPLE CAN SAMPLE MORE.
THE TRICK IS TO UNDERSTAND WHICH
BOOKS BEST WEAR, ESPECIALLY
SINCE IT'S HARDER TO BREAK
BLISHED IN PRINT ANDDS OF TITLES
ELECTRONICALLY NOT TO MENTION
THE WORLD OF OTHER READILY
AVAILABLE ENTERTAINMENT, SO
WHAT'S A YOUNG AUTHOR TO DO?
>> MY ROLE IS TO EVENTUALLY TALK
ABOUT THE BOOK AS MUCH AS I CAN,
TO GET IT OUT THERE AND TALK TO
THE READERS.
>> Brown: ONE GENRE GOING BANG
BUSTERS IS YA, YOUNG ADULT
AIVMENTY WANTS TO BE A PART OF
IT.
THIS WAS HER FIRST TIME AT THE
EXPO TOUTING AND SELLING HER
FIRST BOOK, "THE JEWEL," HOPING
TO APPEAL TO YOUNG PEOPLE AND
ADULTS WHO HAVE INCREASED
READERSHIP FOR THE LIKES OF
HARRY POTTER AND HUNGER GAMES
AND SHE'S REACHING OUT TO ALL OF
THEM.
>> YOU CAN REALLY TALK TO PEOPLE
READING THE BOOK ON TWITTER.
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT MY MOM
AND FRIENDS, PEOPLE READING THE
BOOKS SAYING, I CAN'T BELIEVE
TENDING, I CAN'T WAIT TILL THE
NEXT ONE!
AND I'M SAYING, I CAN'T EITHER!
>> Brown: ARE YOU REALLY
RESPONDING TO EVERYONE
INDIVIDUALLY?
>> YES!
FOR NOW WIL
(LAUGHTER)
>> Brown: UNTIL THERE'S
BILLIONS OF READERS.
>> HOPEFULLY, YES.
>> Brown: NO ONE'S IMMUNE.
PUBLISHING HOUSE VETERANS DO
THEIR OWN VERSION OF NEW
TITLES TO EARN PROMINENT
PLACEMENT IN BOOK STORES ONLINE
AND THIS COMING FALL.
SIMON SHUSTER PUBLISHER JONATHAN
CARP IS OVERSEEING NEW BEST
SELLERS WITH A LIKELY NEW ONE
SOON TO COME IN HILLARY
CLINTON'S MEMOIR.
AT THE EXPO, HE WAS DRUMMING UP
INTEREST IN A NEW NOVEL ENTITLED
"WE ARE NOT OUR OVALS" BY FIRST
TIME AND AT THIS POINT UNKNOWN
AUTHOR MATTHEW THOMAS.
>> THIS IS A BOOK THAT EXPLAINS
THE AMERICAN MIDDLE CLASS
EXPERIENCE.
IF O'NEIL WERE ALIVE TODAY AND
WRITING FICTION, THIS IS THE
KIND HE WOULD WRITE.
>> Brown: ARE YOU TELLING THIS
TO ME?
>> I AM PUSHING, YES, PUSHING
THE BOOK.
IF I CAN'T CONVEY ANY ENTHUSIASM
ABOUT A BOOK, WHY IN THE WORLD
WOULD YOUHE BUY IT?
SO IT BASICALLY, WORD OF MOUTH,
STARTS WITH US, AND THEN IT
SPREADS TO THE BOOK SELLERS AND
THEN HOPEFULLY THROUGH THE
MEDIA, THROUGH INFLUENTIAL
PEOPLE LIKE YOU AND ULTIMATELY
TO REGULAR READERS.
BUT WE THINK READERS NEED TO
HEAR ABOUT A BOOK MAYBE FOUR OR
FIVE DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> Brown: FOUR OR FIVE
DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> SURE!
>> Brown: IS THAT AN ACTUAL
CALCULATION?
>> SURE, MULTIPLE IMPRESSION.
>> Brown: ONE LAST POSSIBLE
IMPRESSION OF COURSE IS AT YOUR
LOCAL BOOK STORE, IF YOU STILL
HAVE ONE, AND THE NEWS HERE IS
MORE POSITIVE AS WELL.
AFTER A BLOOD-LING AMID THE RISE
OF BIG BOX STORES AND ONLINE
SHOPPING, THE AMERICAN BOOK
SELLERS ASSOCIATION REPRESENTING
SMALLER INDEPENDENT STORES SAYS
IT'S MEMBERS HAVE ACTUALLY GROWN
TO 664 THIS YEAR, 250 MORE THAN
FIVE YEARS AGO.
SARAH BAGBY, OWNER OF WATERMARK
BOOKS IN WICHITA, KANSAS, SAYS
SUCCESS TODAY REQUIRES A CAFE,
AN APPEAL TO LOCAL QUALITY OF
LIFE, AND A TOUGH HEAD FOR
BUSINESS.
>> I THINK, OVER THE YEARS,
PEOPLE REALIZE THAT THE BOOK
STORES THAT ARE IN BUSINESS AND
THRIVING IN TODAY'S CLIMATE ARE
REAL BUSINESS PEOPLE.
THEY ARE VERY STRATEGIC ABOUT
THE BOOKS THEY GET BEHIND.
WE BUY A PRODUCT AT THE LOWEST
PRICE WE CAN AND THEN DO
EVERYTHING IN THE STORE WE CAN
TO CONNECT OUR PRODUCT TO THE
CUSTOMER.
>> Brown: SO MUCH FOR THE
ROMANCE OF OWNING A SMALL BOOK
STORE.
>> OH, MY GOSH...
IT'S FUN.
>> Brown: AND THEN THERE WAS
THE ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM, OR AS
IT HAPPENS, BARELY IN THE ROOM,
AMAZON.
WHEREBY, BY SOME ESTIMATES, 30%
OF ALL BOOKS ARE PURCHASED
TODAY.
THERE WAS A FIGHT BETWEEN AMAZON
AND STORES ON HOW TO SPLIT
PROFITS BETWEEN EBOOKS AND
PRINT.
DISPLAYING SHIPMENTS OR REMOVING
BUY BUTTONS.
JAMES PATTERSON EXPRESSED HIS
DISPLEASURE AT THE GROWING POWER
OF A AMAZON.
>> THAT SOUNDS LIKE THE
BEGINNING OF A MONOPOLY TODAY.
AMAZON AS YOU KNOW WANTS TO
CONTROL BOOK SELLING, BOOK
BUYING AND EVEN PUBLISHING.
>> Brown: LATER, PATTERSON WAS
SLIGHTLY MORE RESERVED,
SPREADING BLAME FAR AND WIDE.
>> AT THIS POINT, I'M GOING TO
SAY THIS -- NO VILLAINS, BUT NO
HEROS.
>> Brown: NO VILLAINS BUT NO
>> NO HEROS.
HEROS.
NOBODY'S STEPPING UP GOING, WE
>> NO HEROS.
NEED TO LOOK AT IDEAS AND BOOKS
NOBODY'S STEPPING UP GOING, WE
AND AMERICAN LITERATURE.
NEED TO LOOK AT IDEAS AND BOOKS
THE GOVERNMENT ISN'T DEALING
AND AMERICAN LITERATURE.
WIT, THE MEDIA ISN'T REALLY
THE GOVERNMENT ISN'T DEALING
DEALING WIT MUCH AT ALL.
WIT, THE MEDIA ISN'T REALLY
PUBLISHERS NEED TO BE BRAVE.
DEALING WIT MUCH AT ALL.
>> Brown: AMAZON DID NOT
PUBLISHERS NEED TO BE BRAVE.
RESPOND TO OUR REQUEST TO QUINT
>> Brown: AMAZON DID NOT
AT B.E.A.
RESPOND TO OUR REQUEST TO QUINT
WE'RE ALL AWARE TO HAVE THE HIGH
AT B.E.A.
STAKES OF THIS FIGHT AND THE
WE'RE ALL AWARE TO HAVE THE HIGH
CONTINUED CHURNING OF THE
STAKES OF THIS FIGHT AND THE
INDUSTRY AS A WHOLE.
CONTINUED CHURNING OF THE
>> Woodruff: WATCH JEFF WITH
INDUSTRY AS A WHOLE.
JAMES PATTERSON ON OUR ART BEAT
>> Woodruff: WATCH JEFF WITH
PAGE.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
SO THE STORY I GUESS THAT
DOMINATED THE NEWS THIS WEEKS
BOWE BERGDAHL, THE AMERICAN
PRISONER OF WAR RELEASED FROM
THE TALIBAN.
FIVE DAYS AFTER THE PRESIDENT
ANNOUNCED THIS, LOTS OF
CRITICISM FROM BOTH SIDES,
ESPECIALLY REPUBLICANS
YESTERDAY, THE PRESIDENT STILL
FOUND HIMSELF ANSWERING
QUESTIONS AND DEFENDING HIS
DECISION.
HERE'S JUST PART OF WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID.
>> I'M NEVER SURPRISED BY
CONTROVERSIES WHIPPED UP IN
WASHINGTON, RIGHT?
THAT'S PAR FOR THE COURSE.
BUT I'LL REPEAT WHAT I SAID TWO
DAYS AGO.
WE HAVE A BASIC PRINCIPLE -- WE
DO NOT LEAVE ANYBODY WEARING THE
AMERICAN UNIFORM BEHIND.
WE HAD A PRISONER OF WAR WHO'S
HEALTH HAD DETERIORATED, AND WE
WERE DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT AND
WE SAW AN OPPORTUNITY AND WE
SEIZED IT AND I MAKE NO
APOLOGIES FOR THAT.
I WRITE TOO MANY LETTERS TO
FOLKS WHO UNFORTUNATELY DON'T
SEE THEIR CHILDREN AGAIN AFTER
FIGHTING A WAR.
I MAKE ABSOLUTELY NO APOLOGIES
FOR MAKING SURE THAT WE GET BACK
A YOUNG MAN TO HIS PARENTS AND
THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS
SOMEBODY'S CHILD.
>> Woodruff: SO, MARK, TODAY
THE TALIBAN IS DISPUTING WHAT
WAS SAID.
THEY SAID BERGDAHL WAS EATING
AND PLAYING SOCCER.
WAS THIS THE RIGHT THING TO DO?
>> IT WAS THE RIGHT THING TO DO.
I THINK THE EXPECTATION OF THE
ANNOUNCEMENT IN THE ROSE GARDEN
AND ALL THAT ATTENDED IT WAS
SHORT OF TONE DEAFNESS ON THE
PART OF THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE
PRESIDENT IN PARTICULAR, BUT THE
ACT ITSELF IS THE RIGHT THING TO
DO.
I MEAN, THE PRINCIPLE HE STATED
IS THE CORE PRINCIPLE OF
AMERICAN VALUES AND THAT IS WE
DO NOT LEAVE AMERICANS BEHIND.
WE COULDN'T FIND OUT IN PLENTY
OF TIME WHETHER IN FACT THE
CHARGES AGAINST BERGDAHL MADE BY
SOME PEOPLE ARE TRUE OR NOT TRUE
OR WHATEVER ELSE, BUT WE WON'T
DO IT ON THE BASIS OF SOME SORT
OF KANGAROO COURTY
CONSERVATIVE COMMENTATORS AND A
RUSH TO JUDGMENT TO HANG THE
GUY.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF THE
CRITICS, DAVID, ARE SAYING,
WELL, BECAUSE HE LEFT HIS POST,
APPARENTLY DESERTED, THIS IS
DIFFERENT.
>> I'M WITH MARK ON THIS ONE.
I THINK IT'S NOT THE HEALTH OF
THE INDIVIDUAL BUT THE NATIONAL
FABRIC YOU CARE ABOUT.
WE'RE A POLARIZED, A SEGMENTED
COUNTRY BUT AT THE END OF THE
DAY WE HAVE TO PRESERVE THE IDEA
WE HAVE SOLIDARITY.
SO IN TIMES OF CRISIS, WE REACT
AS ONE AND WHEN WE FIGHT WE
FIGHT AS ONE.
WHEN YOU DO THAT, YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A SENSE OF ALL FOR ONE AND
ONE FOR ALL, SO YOU HAVE TO
PROTECT THE FABRIC.
SO IT'S NOT ALL ABOUT HIM, IT'S
ABOUT THE FABRIC.
HE CERTAINLY SAID EMBARRASSING
THINGS ABOUT THE COUNTRY AND THE
ARMY, BUT YOU GET CITIZENSHIP BY
BIRTH AND BY BEING A MEMBER OF
THE COMMUNITY.
THE SOLDIERS THAT FIGHT FOR US
ARE NOT DOING IT BECAUSE WE
DESERVE IT, THEY'RE DOING IT
BECAUSE WE'RE AMERICANS.
SO I THINK WHETHER HE DESERVED
IT OR NOT IS NOT THE ISSUE.
THE ISSUE IS HE'S AMERICAN.
IF HE DIDME BRING
HIM BACK AND TRY HIM, BUT THAT
IS FAR FROM BEING PROVEN.
RIGHT NOW HE'S JUST AN AMERICAN
SOLDIER.
>> Woodruff: MARX HOW DO YOU
EXPLAIN THIS HUGE CRITICISM
INCLUDING FROM SOME PEOPLE WHO
WERE CALLING FOR THE PRESIDENT
TO GET BERGDAHL BACK?
>> I THINK THAT HAS TO BE AT
SOME POINT A POLITICAL
EXPLANATION TO AN AWFUL LOT OF
IT, JUDY, ESPECIALLY THOSE WHO
WERE CNG EVERY EFFORT BE MADE T.
IN A STRANGE WAY, THIS HAS
BECOME, IN MY JUDGMENT, A
METAPHOR FOR THE WAR ITSELF,
THAT IT'S A WAR THAT'S
UNRESOLVE, UNLIKE THE ONE THAT
WE'RE CELEBRATING THIS DAY AND
WHETHER A VICTORY AND A
RESOLUTION AND GOOD TRIUMPHS AND
EVERYBODY COMES HOME, THIS IS A
WAR THAT IS REMARKABLE TO ME
THAT, WHILE WE'VE GROWN SOMEWHAT
ACCEPTING OF THE FACT OF THE
TERRIBLE TOLL THIS HAS TAKEN ON
AMERICA'S TROOPS, THAT THEY COME
HOME, THE MENTAL AND PHYSICAL
WOUNDS THEY CARRY WITH THEM, WE
AC MY KNOWLEDGE PTSD, AND I JUST
SAY, THOSE IN AFGHANISTAN, I'M
WILLING TO GIVE THEM THE BENEFIT
OF THE DOUBT UNTIL I HAVE AN
IDEA.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
THERE.
THE IDEA SOMEHOW THIS WAS AN ACT
OF DISLOYALTY TO THE COUNTRY --
MAKE NO MISTAKE, DEMOCRATS ON
THE HILL WERE OUTRAGED.
>> Woodruff: THEY WEREN'T
INFORMED.
>> THEY WEREN'T INFORMED.
CONGRESS IS AN INSTITUTION,
LOVES TO HAVE THAT.
THEY DON'T WANT RESPONSIBILITY
OF DECLARING WAR, HAVEN'T DONE
THAT SINCE DECEMBER 8, 1941, BUT
THEY WANT SORT OF THE
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF THE AUTHORITY.
BUT THE WHITE HOUSE HAS BEEN
INEPT IN ITS DEALINGS WITH
CONGRESS AND THERE IS ANGER AND
DEMOCRATS HAVE TAKEN THE
DEFENSIVE ON THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT, THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION
AND AIR POLLUTION --
>> TWO THINGS I AGREE WITH AND
ONE THING I DISAGREE.
TWO THINGS I AGREE, GIVE THEM
THE BENEFIT IN THE DOUBT, PEOPLE
UNDER ENORMOUSLY STRESS.
SECONDLY, THE TONE DEAFNESS,
NON-PROFIT ANTICIPATED THIS, TO
HAVE HAD THE ROSE GARDEN
CEREMONY AS IF IT WAS GOING TO
BE THE OPRAH SHOW AND EVERYONE
WILL APPLAUD.
THAT IS VERY WEIRD AND I DON'T
HAVE AN EXPLANATION.
THE OTHER AREA I DISAGREE, WE
LEAVE NO ONE BLIND IS NOT A
BLIND PRINCIPLE.
WE HAVE TO BE AWARE OF THE
CONSEQUENCES.
IF WE TRADE PEOPLE WHO WOULD
KILL 10,000 AMERICANS FOR ONE
SOLDIER, YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
SPECIFIC PEOPLE WE'RE RELEASING
IN THIS CASE.
FIVE REALLY BAD GUYS, OUT OF
CIRCULATION 12 YEARS.
NOT CLEAR HOW MUCH DAMAGE THEY
WILL DO.
THEY MIGHT DO DAMAGE BUT LESS
DAMAGE THAN TEARING UP THE
FABRIC OF AMERICA BY SAYING TO A
CITIZEN WE'RE CUTTING YOU OFF.
AS WAS SAID THIS WEEK, THEY'LL
TRADE 1100 PEOPLE FOR ONE OR
THREE AND THEY DO THAT BECAUSE
THEY ALL KNOW ISRAELI PARENTS
ARE FLESH OF ONE FLESH AND THEY
HAVE SYMPATHY FOR ONE ANOTHER
AND PRESERVE THAT SYMPATHY IN A
COUNTRY LIKE OURS THAT'S DEEPLY
POLARIZED.
>> Woodruff: DO WE PATE AND
SEE WHAT BERGDAHL SAYS?
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THE POOR GUY --
I SAY POOR GUY -- IT'S BEEN FIVE
YEARS, JUDY, ESSENTIALLY IN
ISOLATION AWAY FROM ANYBODY HE
EVER KNEW AND ANYTHING HE'S EVER
FAMILIAR WITH.
HE'S IN GERMANY IN THE HOSPITAL,
SAYING HE'S HAVING TROUBLE WITH
ENGLISH.
WHEN HE COMES BACK, I'M SURE
THERE WILL BE HEARINGS.
I TRUST AMERICAN JUSTICE A LOT
MORE THAN TALIBAN JUSTICE.
>> Woodruff: I'M HEARING WHAT
MARK IS SAYING ABOUT THE
CONTRAST OF D-DAY.
WE'RE SEEING THE SHORES OF
NORMANDY FRANCE, A DIFFERENT
KIND OF WAR AND LEGACY THAN
ANYTHING WE'VE EVER EXPERIENCED.
>> THE ONE PARALLEL I DRAW IS
THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID THIS
PHRASE A LOT THE LAST COUPLE OF
WEEKS WHICH I YO EUPHEMIEST E, E
DON'T DO STUPID STUFF, AND IT'S
A DOCTRINE THAT THE U.S. ERRS
WHE WHEN IT DOES TOO MUCH.
D-DAY COULD HAVE BEEN A REALLY
HORRIBLE EVENT AND DWIGHTWAS PRR
THAT.
THE IDEA THAT OUR PROBLEMS IS
CAUSE BID OVERREACH IS JUST A
HALF TRUTH.
THE WORLD WAR II GENERATION WAS
A WAR AND A POSTWAR PERIOD WHERE
AMERICA WAS PLENTY AGGRESSIVE,
TOOK PLENTY OF CHANCES AND SOME
OF THEM PAID OFF AND SOME
DIDN'T.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT
EISENHOWER DID, YOU SAY, WAS
CLEARLY REACHING.
>> ON D-DAY, IT WAS REACHING.
IT WAS AN INCREDIBLE ACT.
I THINK IT'S NOT SIMPLY THE WAR.
THE WAR WAS REMARKABLE, JUDY, IN
THAT THERE WAS AN EQUALITY OF
SACRIFICE, IT WAS UNIVERSAL.
WE ABSOLUTELY WERE ALL ENGAGED,
WHETHER THE RATIONING OF MEAT OR
GASOLINE OR CIGARETTES OR
ALCOHOL, WHATEVER.
ONE-THIRD OF ALL FRUITS IN THE
U.S. WERE RAISED IN VICTORY
GARDENS.
ALL FOUR SERVED IN COMBAT IN
WORLD I PRESIDENCY.
SO THAT WAS PART OF IT.
THE OTHER THING, WE USUALLY
ACKNOWLEDGE INDIVIDUAL ACTS OF
GREAT BRAVE RI-- THE MEDAL OF
HONOR, NAVY CROSS, SILVER
STAR -- THIS WAS THOUSANDS UPON
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS, ALL AN
ACT OF INCREDIBLE COLLECTIVE AND
INDIVIDUAL COURAGE.
I MEAN, GOING AND LANDING ON
THAT NORMANDY BEACH, 80 MILES OF
OPEN WATER, ALL OF IT, IT WAS
REMARKABLE.
THE MEMORY AT OF THE COUNTRY AT
THE TIME WAS SOMETHING WE SHOULD
JUST TREASURE AND COVET.
>> Woodruff: ELECTIONS AND
PRIMARIES, MISSISSIPPI AND IOWA
VOTED THIS WEEK, AND
MISSISSIPPI, PARTICULARLY
INTERESTING, YOU NOW HAVE A
RUN-OFF, 7-TERM STALWART
REPUBLICAN, THAT DI -- THAD COCW
FACING A CHALLENGER, MCCONNELL,
TEA PARTY.
>> THERE WAS A CHANGE IN LOGIC
IN THE APPROPRIATORS, WHICH IS
WHEN YOU BROUGHT A LOT OF STEAKO
A STATE -- HE GAVE A LOT TO
MISSISSIPPIANS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DECIDED WE
UNDERSTAND THE MONEY IS GOOD BUT
WASHINGTON IS SO MESSED UP,
WE'VE STILL GOT TO VOTE THESE
PEOPLE OUT OF OFFICE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING THAT.
THE THING THAT'S INTERESTING
ABOUT THE RUNOFF IS WHO HAS THE
PASSION.
WE ASSUME THE TEA PARTY, THE
OPPONENT HAS THE PASSION.
WE ASSUME THEY'RE MORE
IMPASSIONED AND MOTIVATED TO
VOTE THAN THE REGULARS, BUT I'M
NOT SURE THAT'S TRUE THIS YEAR.
IF COCHRAN SURVIVES, IT WILL BE
A SIGN AMONG THE ESTABLISHMENT
THERE ARE PASSIONATE VOTERS, AT
LEAST AS PASSIONATE ON THE TEA
PARTY SIDE.
>> COCHRAN WON NINE CONSECUTIVE
ELECTIONS IN MISSISSIPPI WITHOUT
EVER ONCE APPEALING TO RACIAL
FEELINGS AT ALL.
HE'S BEEN ABOVE IT.
HE'S BEEN A WONDERFUL PUBLIC
SERVANT.
I AGREE WITH DAVID THAT THE
REMARKABLE THING ABOUT HIM --
MICHAEL BARONE PUT IT WELL, SAYS
HE REPRESENTS A VANISHING BREED
OF THE SOUTHERN REPUBLICAN.
HE'S PERSONALLY DECENT, HE
DOESN'T DEMONIZE THE OTHER SIDE.
HE WORKS ACROSS THE AISLE.
HE DOES PRIDE HIMSELF ON BEING
HOME.
HE'S CONSERVATIVE BUT NOT
RIGIDLY SO AND AGREEABLE TO
EVERYBODY.
I MEAN, IT'S REALLY A COURTLY
SOUTHERN TYPE WHICH IS NO LONGER
IN VOGUE.
I REALLY DO THINK THAT HE'S IN
TROUBLE.
THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT IT.
HE DIDN'T GET THE MAJORITY THAT
THEY HOPED FOR.
MISSISSIPPI, FORMER GOVERNOR
WILLIAM WINTER, WHO IS AN
EXCELLENT PLAYER ON BOTH RACIAL
RECONCILIATION AND EDUCATION IN
THIS STATE TOLD THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" THIS WOULD BE THE WORST
STEREOTYPE CONFIRMED ON
MISSISSIPPI IF McDANIEL AND
THE TEA PARTY WIN THIS ONE.
AND I THINK THERE'S A LOT TO IT.
I SAY THIS, JUDY, IT'S A WARNING
FOR THE REST OF THE COUNTRY.
WE ARE SEEING THE FUTURE IN
MISSISSIPPI POLITICS.
$5 MILLION GOES INTO
McDANIEL'S BEHALF FROM OUTSIDE
INDEPENDENT GROUPS, HIS CAMPAIGN
IS 1/4 OF THAT, 1.4.
THE OUTSIDE GROUPS ARE RUNNING
THESE CAMPAIGNS, THEY'RE FUNDING
THEM AND DRIVING THEM AND
THAT'S, THANK YOU SUPREME COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: AV
HERE.
UNLESS YOU HAVE TWO SECONDS --
>> NO, NOT WISE.
>> Woodruff: SAVE IT FOR NEXT
TIME.
WE'RE GLAD YOU TWO AREN'T
INSIDERS.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS.
>> Woodruff: KATHLEEN'S REPORT
WAS PART OF OUR "AMERICAN
GRADUATE SERIES," A PUBLIC MEDIA
INITIATIVE FUND BY THE
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
>> Woodruff: HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE AROUND THE
GLOBE WILL BE WATCHING FERVENTLY
NEXT WEEK WHEN THE WORLD CUP,
THE WORLD'S MOST POPULAR
SPORTING EVENT, KICKS OFF IN
BRAZIL.
BUT A SERIES OF REPORTS AND
INVESTIGATIONS ARE CASTING A
CLOUD OVER THE SPORT AND ITS
INTERNATIONAL GOVERNING BODY,
F.I.F.A.
JEFF IS BACK WITH THAT STORY.
>> Brown: ONE INVESTIGATIVE
SERIES, PUBLISHED IN "THE NEW
YORK TIMES," FOUND A MATCH-
FIXING SYNDICATE WAS ABLE TO
MANIPULATE SEVERAL CONTESTS IN
THE RUN-UP TO THE PREVIOUS WORLD
CUP IN 2010.
THE STORIES INCLUDED TALES OF
APPARENT BRIBERY THAT LED TO
CLEARLY SUSPICIOUS CALLS BY
REFEREES IN AN EFFORT TO EXPLOIT
MATCHES FOR BETTING PURPOSES.
SEPARATELY, THE SUNDAY TIMES , A
BRITISH NEWSPAPER, PUBLISHED NEW
DOCUMENTS SHOWING CORRUPTION AND
PAYMENTS BEHIND QUATAR'S
SUCCESSFUL BID TO HOST THE CUP
IN 2022.
DECLAN HILL IS AN INVESTIGATIVE
JOURNALIST WHO CO-WROTE THE NEW
YORK TIMES SERIES.
HE JOINS US NOW.
SO THESE GAMES THAT WERE FIXED
IN THE RUNUP TO THE LAST WORLD
CUP, TELL US BRIEFLY WHAT
HAPPENED.
>> WELL, JEFFREY, IT'S AN
EXTRAORDINARY STORY, A SINNED
CASE WORKING OUT OF SINGAPORE
AND MALAYSIA THAT FOR YEARS HAVE
BEEN TRAVELING AROUND AND POLICE
SAY HAVE FIXED HUNDREDS OF
GAMES, CORRUPTED AND GOTTEN TO
PLAYERS AND REFEREES AROUND THE
WORLD AND THIS WAS JUST SOME OF
THEIR ACTIVITY.
THEY GOT INTO THE OFFICIALS OF
THE SUB-AFRICAN SOCCER
ASSOCIATION, NOT ALL, JUST A
COUPLE.
SOME OFFICIALS WERE HEROIC AND
TRYING TO STOP THEM, AND THEY
WERE FIXING GAMES LITERALLY DAYS
BEFORE THE START OF THE 2010
WORLD CUP.
>> Brown: IS THERE ANY
EVIDENCE IT REACHED HIGHER INTO
THE WORLD CUP ITSELF, INTO MORE
MEANINGFUL GAMES?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S AN
EXCELLENT QUESTION BECAUSE THE
FIXES HAVE BEEN COMING TO THESE
BIG INTERNATIONAL SOCCER
TOURNAMENTS FOR AT LEAST 20
YEARS, THEY COME CHRONICALLY AND
CONSISTENTLY.
WHAT WE FOUND IN THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" INVESTIGATION IS
STRANGELY THE THIEF
INVESTIGATION REPORT WE WERE
USING AS SOME OF OUR SOURC
STALKED THEIR INVESTIGATION AT
SIMPLY THE EXHIBITION MATCHES
BEFORE THE WORLD CUP.
SO THEY DIDN'T FIND ANY EVIDENCE
OF WORLD CUP MATCHES BEING
FIXED.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THEY REA
WEREN'T LOOKING FOR THEM.
SO WE'RE STILL UNCLEAR.
>> Brown: WELL, THIS IS A BIG
PART OF YOUR STORY, CLEARLY.
FIFA LOOKED INTO ALL OF THIS,
BUT YOU'RE SUGGESTING THEY
DIDN'T -- WELL, IT'S NOT CLEAR
HOW HARD THEY LOOKED OR WHAT
THEY DID AFTERWARDS, RIGHT?
>> IT'S A VERY COMPLICATED
STORY.
THERE ARE LOTS OF HEROS AND
VILLAINS.
WHAT'S CLEAR IS THE
INVESTIGATIVE REPORT ONLY
STARTED TWO YEARS AFTER THESE
MATCHES AND THEN IT WAS RELEASED
TWO YEARS AGO AND IT'S KIND OF
HUNG AROUND.
LOTS OF PEOPLE INSIDE FIFA AND
THE SOCCER ASSOCIATION HAVE
SIGNED THE ALLEGATIONS IN THE
REPORT YET NOTHING HAS BEEN
DONE.
>> Brown: SO THE ISSUE IS HOW
WORLD CUP THAT'S ABOUT TO START,
THESE GAMES, AND WHAT IS BEING
DONE TO TAKE CARE THAT THIS
DOESN'T HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> I THINK IT GOES RIGHT TO THE
QUESTION OF CREDIBILITY.
IT'S NOT JUST THAT THE GAMES
COULD OR COULD NOT BE FIXED.
IT'S WHETHER AN HT,
FAIR-MINDED PERSON COULD BE
TEST TEST TEST S
WORSE?
AND THAT'S WHAT FIFA HAS TO
ELIMINATE.
THEY TRIED FAIR PLAY.
THEY HAVE A NEW FIFA DIRECTOR OF
SECURITY, A FORMER GERMAN POLICE
OFFICER, WHO ADMITTED OPENLY FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN FIR FIFA HISTY
THAT FIXERS DO TARGET THESE
GAMES AND THEY'RE TRYING TO DO
SOMETHING, BUT IT MAY BE A
QUESTION TOO LITTLE TOO LATE AT
THIS MOMENT.
>> Brown: AS YOU SHOWED AND
THE FIFA INVESTIGATION SHOWED,
THE WAY IN WAS THROUGH
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUALS, RIGHT,
THROUGH REFEREES WHO WOULD MAKE
CERTAIN CALLS.
BUT EVEN THEN LOOK FUNNY, I
GUESS.
>> ACTUALLY, JEFFREY, IT'S FAR
WORSE.
I HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING THIS STORY
FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS AND I HAVE
WRITTEN A COUPLE OF BOOKS ON
THIS.
WHAT WE'VE SHOWN IN THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" IS IT WASN'T JUST
DODGY REFEREES AND THE ODD
CORRUPTED PLAYER, IT'S MOVED UP
INTO THE HIGH LEVEL SOCCER
OFFICIALS, THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
SO NOT FIFA IT WASSELF, BUT, FOR
EXAMPLE, SOME SOCCER
ASSOCIATIONS, FOR EXAMPLE IN
SOUTH AFRICA, THERE WERE
OFFICIALS INSIDE SAYING SOME OF
OUR COLLEAGUES ARE CLEARLY
CORRUPT.
WHICH OF THOSE OFFICIALS WERE
CORRUPT, WE DON'T KNOW.
WE DO KNOW THERE WERE
ALLEGATIONS OF DEATH THREATS,
THERE WAS BRIBES, YOU KNOW,
THERE WAS LOTS OF MONEY FLOATING
AROUND, BUT WE STILL HADN'T BEEN
ABLE TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
THIS MURK WHERE SCANDAL.
>> Brown: NOW I WANT TO MOVE
TO WHAT WE ALSO LEARNED ABOUT
THE DECISION TO AWARD THE 2022
WORLD CUP TO QATAR AND WITH
APPARENTLY A LOT OF MONEY
CHANGING HANDS.
WHAT DO WE KNOW AT THIS POINT?
>> THE DECISION TO AWARD THE
WORLD CUP WHICH YOU KNOW IS THE
WORLD'S BIGGEST SPORGT
TOURNAMENT BY DIFFERENT FACTORS,
FAR OUTRANKS IN TERMS OF WORLD
ATTENTION AND CASH.
ALMOST FROM THE VERY MINUTE IN
DECEMBER 2010 THAT QATAR WAS
GIVEN THE WORLD CUP, THERE HAVE
BEEN QUESTIONS WHY WOULD SUCH A
COUNTRY WHICH IS SO SMALL WITH
SUCH A SMALL POPULATION BASE,
MUCH SMALLER THAN EVEN
WASHINGTON, D.C., BE AWARDED
THIS HUGE SPORTING TOURNAMENT.
AND OUR COLLEAGUES AT THE SUNDAY
TIMES IN LONDON ANNOUNCED LAST
SUNDAY THEY HAD MILLIONS, THEIR
WORDS, OF E-MAILS, CACHED
E-MAILS BOTH FROM FIFA AND
FORMER FIFA OFFICIALS ALLEGING A
SERIES OF VERY SYSTEMATIC
PAYMENTS TO VARIOUS SOCCER
OFFICIALS TO AWARD THE WORLD CUP
HOSTING RIGHTS TO QATAR.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, DECLAN
HILL, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JEFFREY.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE MORE
ONLINE.
YOU CAN FIND A WORLD CUP PRIMER
AND A VIEWER'S GUIDE FOR
EXCITING MATCHES TO WATCH OUT
FOR, THAT IS ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
LEADERS OF THE WORLD WAR TWO
ALLIES AND VETERANS IN THEIR
80'S AND 90'S MARKED THE 70TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE D-DAY
LANDINGS IN FRANCE.
ON THE SIDELINES OF THE D-DAY
EVENTS, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTIN
MET BRIEFLY WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
AND PRESIDENT-ELECT POROSHENKO
OF UKRAINE.
AND THE U.S. ECONOMY ADDED
217,000 JOBS IN MAY, WHILE THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE WAS UNCHANGED,
AT 6.3%.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, DESPITE THE TITLE, QUEEN
BEES HAVE NO AUTHORITY.
SO HOW DO BEES WORK TOGETHER
WITHOUT A LEADER?
MILES O'BRIEN VISITS WITH
RESEARCHERS WHO STUDY THE
COMPLEXITY OF HIVE CULTURE, IN
THE LATEST "SCIENCE NATION"
VIDEO.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WHEN IS A VICTORY
NOT A VICTORY?
WHEN YOU'RE THE WHITE HOUSE AND
YOU'VE RESCUED THE LAST SOLDIER
HELD IN AFGHANISTAN, OR WHEN
YOU'RE MISSISSIPPI'S THAD
COCHRAN AND THE TEA PARTY IS
NIPPING AT YOUR HEELS?
WE EXAMINE POLITICS IN ALL ITS
MANY DELIGHTFUL SHADINGS LATER
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
>> Woodruff: BE SURE TO JOIN
HARI SREENIVASAN ON THE PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND TOMORROW NIGHT.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY WITH A LOOK AT
NATIONWIDE DATA ON WAIT TIMES AT
V.A. HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.